Socket
A socket identifies an endpoint in a network.

Port
A port is a numbered socket on a particular machine. A server process is said to "listen" to a port until a client connects
to it. A server is allowed to access multiple clients connected to the same port number, although each session is unique.

TCP/IP protocol
Protocol through which socket communication takes place.

IP Protocol (Internet Protocol)
It is a low-level routing protocol that breaks data into small packets and sends them to an address across a network, which
does not guarantee to deliver the said packets to the destination.

TCP Protocol (Transmission Control Protocol)
It is a higher-level protocol that manages to robustly string together the data packets, sorting and retransmitting them
as necessary to reliably transmit data. It reserves the lower 1024 ports for specific protocols. e.g 21 for FTP, 23 for Telnet,
 25 for e-mail, 43 for whois, 80 for HTTP etc.

UDP Protocol (User Datagram Protocol)
It sits next to TCP and can be used directly to support fast, connectionless, unreliable transport of data packets.

HTTP Protocol (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
It is the protocol that web browsers and servers use to transfer hypertext pages and images.

Working of HTTP 
When a client requests a file from an HTTP server (the action is called "hit"), it simply sends the name of the file in a special
format to a pre-defined port and reads back the contents of the file. The server also responds with a status code to tell the
client whether or not the request can be fulfilled and why.

Internet Address (IPv4 and IPv6)
An Internet address is a number that uniquely identifies each computer on the Internet. IPv4 is an Internet address scheme
which consists of 32-bit values organized as four 8-bit values. IPv6 is an Internet address scheme which consists of 128-bit 
values organized as eight 16-bit values.

Domain Name
It is the name of an Internet address which describes a machine's location in a namespace e.g. www.github.com is in the
"com" top-level domain, it is called "github" and "www" identifies the server for web requests.

DNS (Domain Name Service)
It maps an Internet domain name to an IP address. This enables us to work with domain names, but the Internet operates
on the IP addresses.

Web
A loose collection of higher-level protocols and file formats, all unified in a web browser

URL (Uniform Resource Locator)
It provides a reasonably intelligible form to uniquely identify or address information on the Internet. The web browsers use 
them to identify information on the web. Within Java's network class library, the "URL" class provides a simple, concise API
to access information across the internet using URLs. 

URL Specification
A URL specification is based on 4 components:-
1) The protocol to use, separated from the rest of the locator by a colon (:). Common protocols are http, FTP, gopher and file.
2) The host name or IP address of the host to use (delimited on the left by double forward slashes // and on the right side
      by a single forward slash (/) or optionally a colon (:))
3) The port number is an optional parameter (delimited on the left from the host name by a colon (:) and on the right side
     by a single forward slash (/)). It defaults to port 80, which is the pre-defined HTTP port and hence ":80" is redundant)
4) The actual file path

Java supports both TCP/IP and UDP protocol families. It supports TCP/IP by extending the already established stream I/O
interface and by adding the features required to build I/O objects across the network reliably. UDP supports a simpler and 
faster point-to-point datagram oriented model.





 